Alright guys, I hope you're excited because in this video,
I'm about to share with you something that
I started doing it in the start of the year that really
supercharged my results and that is the video proposal.
Now, credit where credit's due.
Actually, found this idea from this article by Rich 20 something.
It's called Hacking Elance,
the step-by-step breakdown slash guide to how I made 23,704 weeks.
It's a pretty big article but the part that really got my attention and the strategy I
decided to implement was creating these videos or pictures or video proposals.
He actually even provides you a script of what he
sends to clients and he actually provides some video examples.
What I did was I ran with this idea and I started doing it in
my own way to set myself apart from the competition much more.
Before I show you some of my video proposals,
you might be thinking Chris,
you've spent a lot of time on video,
you've been on YouTube for over two years,
your grade on video, I can't do this.
Don't think like that.
As you watch these videos and you watch my videos,
you'll see that it's not like a regular YouTube video or even
presenting a class on skillshare, It's very casual.
I just use my webcam and my Apple earphones and I don't edit the video at all.
That's the other thing. I just talk on camera.
The important things about these video proposal is, number one,
you're setting yourself apart instantly
because who else is going to be sending a video proposal,
maybe one other person if best,
so you're already standing out amongst the heap.
Two, the client can actually see you.
They can actually put a name to the face and actually hear your voice.
He heard genuine you are and so they're going to feel like they're interacting with
a real person much more than if they just
receive a bunch of texts from some no-name freelancer.
Thirdly, it allows you to communicate
better that you're understanding the job description,
you're researching their company,
and you're figuring out ways to solve their problems.
In this video, I'm going to share with you
two video proposals that I sent out that landed me jobs on Upwork.
But before I do that,
I want to talk about some principles with doing your own video proposal.
Number one, and this is something I learned from the original article
from "Rich 20something."I'm following this structure.
We've got attention grab,
lead into the video,
website reference high-energy close.
The main thing that I've done is grab their attention and lead them into the video.
I do say something like,
this is not a Cannes[phon] proposal,
I am actually sending you a recorded video just for you.
That will often intrigue clients more than anything is,
somebody recorded a video for me personally,
I want to watch this even if they see nothing else,
they're like, okay, well,
you've got my attention,
I want to see this freelance actually talk about
my job on camera and then they click on the link.
That would be my first tip is be very succinct with the proposal.
Chances are that the client is going through
a lot of proposals and so they don't have a lot of time.
You don't want to bombard them with a bunch of text and a video.
The video is going to be the thing that
communicates all the information and puts you forward for the job.
The text is just to get them to click on the video.
Once they've clicked on the video,
what they can do after that,
so you want to grab their attention,
draw them into the video and once they've watched the video,
make a call to action.
I actually like to put the call to action in the video as well.
Next, when you're actually recording the video,
I want you to be very casual.
Use the person's name if you can,
bring up the actual job description on your screen,
as you'll see in the examples.
I do a full-on screen-cast while also having
a box down the bottom that they can actually see me on the webcam.
If you're wondering how to do that,
you can probably look that up.
I use QuickTime media player for it.
It's an easy thing to do but I'm using a Mac but you'll see the formula
that I go through in my example videos is I start with a job description,
I go over me reading it and breaking it down and answering the points directly.
We can apply all the principles that we've learned in
this class so far to the video proposal now.
The great thing about the video proposal is we can do it in real time.
I can highlight certain points of their job description
and talk about how I can position myself for that.
The other great thing about video is that I can open up
a new tab in my website browser and find actual examples.
If I have a portfolio piece to bring up,
I can show them that in real time,
if I don't know how to do something but I've done my research,
I can go and show them articles where,
look I found a process of how we could do this,
I've never done this before but I think using this approach would be good.
You can do all the things that we've talked about in
this course and you can apply them and do them on video.
Makes it so much more powerful and the client
doesn't have to go around clicking different links and interpreting it.
You just click on the next tab in the browser,
show that to them.
Just physically show them on camera what you're talking about and what you
would have put in your text proposals that in itself can be very powerful.
Between this video and the article on 'rich20something.com',
you guys have all the information you need to go out there and put out a video proposal,
I think of course it helps to see examples.
I'm going to play two examples for you now in this video,
back to back of jobs that have actually won on Upwork and if you have any questions
about the video proposal definitely leave them in the discussion box.
I hope you guys try it.
Let me know how you go with it.
Let me know if it's something that has really worked for you because it's
really worked for me and I highly recommend it.
That's pretty much the course guys.
Thanks so much for watching in the next video,
I'm going to conclude the course,
so stick around for that but for now,
I want to talk about the class project make sure to post your profile once
you've finished completing it in the project section of this skillshare class.
The great benefit of that is that other students can go in,
give you feedback, I can go in and give you feedback on your profile.
It'll just give you more incentive to go out there and set up that profile.
If you have any issues, discussion box below and I'll see you in the final video.
Thanks so much. Hi Vanessa,
Chris here calling but doing this video proposal
for you from up north in the Gold Coast in Australia.
I see you guys run a video production company in Sydney.
I'm a huge fan of video.
Actually, have three YouTube channels.
Feel free to talk to me about video anytime I love it
but this job is about web development.
Lets get talking about that.
I see you're interested in an interactive price list.
I'm not exactly sure what you're referring to but I did take a look at your example.
I see that down the bottom there is a pricing table.
It's interactive in the sense that there's different tabs that you can click
on and they open up different sections.
You can click Choose and it opens up a modal.
When the modal opens,
you can start to make payment and get a membership.
To me this is pretty standard functionality,
a lot of websites have this.
We can find a plug-in for this or code it.
I'm sure there's many plug-ins available to do this,
just it would have to integrate with your membership plug-in.
I'm not sure if you have that yet or you have a payment gatemay or something like that.
That's probably the biggest level of complexity to this
but honestly it's not that tough and maybe you've already figured that out.
I want to hop on about that.
Basically, pretty standard functionality I can't see it being
too challenging for myself a little bit about
me because I didn't actually introduce what I do.
I'm a WordPress developer.
I will link a little bit of my portfolio in the job cover letter.
I'm always excited to work with other Australians.
My best clients pretty much all of my best clients are from Australia.
It's always good to work with other Aziz.
I really like what you're doing in terms of video.
That's all I wanted to say.
I just wanted to be able to talk on video to you guys have a face to the name.
I don't know what I'm doing with my hand but
anyway just please get back to me either way whether,
it's just to say Chris, you're not a right fit or let's talk more about this project.
I really appreciate a reply.
Thanks so much for your time.
I'll just speak to you later. Good day, I'm Chris.
I came across your ad looking for an Australian based developer.
I'm an Australian-based developer actually here in
the Gold Coast in Queensland at the moment.
You're looking for somebody with experience using the Yii2 framework.
Actually the last contract I did in Brisbane,
was for a startup called PetCloud and that was the code base we were using.
We actually started on coding and then we moved over to Yii.
To be honest with you,
I was mainly front end for that job.
Sir, I'm not a specialist back-end developer
but I do have experience plugging into Yii and we did use postgres for the database.
You have a developer actively involved but you just need extra resources.
I can definitely help with that.
I can start immediately,
used Yii before and I think the front end stuff is my specialty.
I might be a good fit for this job,
if not send me a message anywhere,
I'd love to hear from you and hope to speak to you soon.